Question:
Write a program which will find all such numbers which are divisible by 7 but are not a multiple of 5,
between 2000 and 3200 (both included).
The numbers obtained should be printed in a comma-separated sequence on a single line.
ANSWER:
numbers = []
for i in range(2000, 3201):
    if i % 7 == 0 and i % 5 != 0:
        numbers.append(str(i))

print(",".join(numbers))

Question-answer:
1. What is an IDE? An IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment. Examples include PyCharm, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, and Atom. 
2. What is a Programming Language? It is a medium to communicate with computers. 
3. What is a Syntax? Syntax refers to a set of rules in programming. 
4. What is a Library? A library is a set of programs that has been wri en, bundled together, and can be directly used to write programs. 
5. Where is Python commonly used? Python is used in web development, data science, machine learning (ML), 
game development, scrip ng, automa on, and integra on with cloud. 
6. What are keywords in Python? Every programming language has key/reserved words that are used to create the language. Examples include for, 
while, break, con nue, def, and lambda. 
7. Can keywords be used as variables? No, you cannot use a keyword as a variable. 
8. How can you view the list of keywords in Python? You can view them by typing the code: import keyword followed by print(keyword.kwlist). 
11. What are the basic components of a programming language? The components include literals, numeric, string, boolean, and special/none. 
12. What are primi ve (fundamental) data types in Python? The primi ve data types are integers, floats, strings, booleans, and none. 
13. What happens when you add a float and an integer? The result will be a float. 
14. What is type conversion? It is the process of conver ng one data type into another, for example converting a string "1000" to an integer 1000 using int(). 
15. What does bool(-10.5) output? It outputs True. 
16. What does bool(0) and bool(0.0) output? They both output False. 
17. What does bool(" ") (a string with a space) output? It outputs True. 
18. What does bool(None) output? It outputs False. 
19. What does int(True) output? It outputs 1. 
20. What does float(False) output? It outputs 0.0.
21. What are the arithme c operators in Python? They include +, -, *, /, %. 
22. What does the modulus operator % do? It returns the remainder of a division. 
23. How do you calculate a power or exponent in Python? You use the ** operator (e.g., (5)**2 becomes 5 ** 2 which is 25). 
24. What is a compound assignment operator? It is an operator like += or -=. For example, x += 1 means x = x + 1. 
25. What are the comparison operators? They are ==, !=, >, <, <=, >=. 
26. What are the logical operators? They are and, or, and not, and they work on boolean values. 
27. What does not True output? It outputs False. 
28. What is operator precedence and associa vity? Precedence is the priority of evalua on, and associativity is the direction  of evaluation 
(left-to-right or right-to-lfte ) when precedence is the same. 
29. What is a unary operator? An operator that works on a single operand, like -10. 
30. What is a ternary operator? An operator that works based on a condi on. Example: result = "even" if num % 2 == 0 else "odd".
31. What does the print() func on do by default when given mul ple arguments? By default, there 
is a space between the printed items. 
32. How can you change the default space separator in print()? By using the sep parameter, for example, print(10, 20, sep="*"). 
33. What data type does the input() func on read by default? The input() func on reads everything in string format. 
34. What do the abs() and pow() func ons do? abs() returns the absolute value, and pow(x, y) calculates power. 
35. How is indexing done in Python strings? Indexing is done using []. Le to right is posi ve indexing (star ng at 0), and right to le is nega ve indexing. 
36. What is string slicing? It allows extrac ng parts of a string using [start:stop:step] syntax. 
37. What are f-strings? F-strings allow inser ng variables directly inside strings, e.g., print(f"{name} is {age} years old"). 
38. What are escape sequences? They are special characters like \n for a new line, \t for a tab, and \' to insert a single quote inside a single-quoted string. 
39. What is string concatena on? The joining of strings is called concatena on. 
40. What are membership operators? They are in and not in, used to check if a substring or element exists within a sequence. 
41. What does the strip() func on do? It is used for removing unnecessary spaces from a string. 
42. What does the replace() func on do? It replaces an old substring with a new one using replace(old, new). 
43. What does the count() func on do? It counts the occurrences of a specific character or substring. 
44. What are some string case methods? upper(), lower(), tle(), and capitalize(). 
45. What do startswith() and endswith() do? They check if a string begins or ends with a specific sequence, and they are case sensi ve. 
46. What is a list and is it mutable? A list is a sequence denoted by [] and it is mutable. 
47. How do you find the number of items in a list? Using the len() func on. 
48. What does append() do? It adds an item to the end of the list. It modifies the same list (in
place) and returns None. 
49. What does insert() do? It adds an element before the specific index. 
50. How do you add more than one character or item to a list? Use the extend() func on. 
51. What is the difference between remove() and pop()? remove() deletes the first occurrence of a specified value, while pop() removes an element by its index. 
52. What happens if you use list.sort(reverse=True)? It sorts the list in descending order. 
53. Does the count() method work on lists? Yes, it counts the occurrences of an item in the list. If the data is not present, it outputs 0. 
54. Can you use min() and sum() on a list? Yes, for numerical opera ons on list elements. 
55. What is a nested list? A list inside another list.
56. What is a Tuple and is it mutable? A tuple is denoted by () and is immutable. 
57. Why do we use tuples? Python has tuples because somemes you want data that should not change. 
58. How do you convert a list to a tuple? By using the tuple() func on, like t = tuple(L1). 
59. Can you concatenate tuples? Yes, using the + operator. 
60. Does indexing work on tuples? Yes, you can access tuple elements using index posi ons. 
61. What is a Set? Sets are non-sequen al collec ons of items. 
62. Is indexing allowed in sets? No, indexing and slicing are not allowed because sets are nonsequen al. 
63. What happens if you try to add a duplicate element to a set? There is no difference in the output; it ignores duplicates. 
64. What is the difference between remove() and discard() in sets? If an element is not present, remove() will throw an error,
but discard() will not give an error. 
65. What are the common opera ons on sets? Union, Intersec on, and Difference. 
66. What happens if there are no common elements during an intersec on? You get an empty Set(). 
67. What is a frozenset? Frozen sets are immutable sets. 
68. Can you add an item to a frozenset? No, using .add() on a frozenset will give an error.
69. What is a Dic onary? It is a data type used for labeled data storing key -> value pairs with a unique id. 
70. Is indexing allowed in dic onaries? No indexing is allowed in dic onaries. 
71. How do you access a value in a dic onary? By passing the key in brackets, e.g., print(groceries['milk']). 
72. What happens if a dic onary has two iden cal keys with different values? Keys cannot be duplicates; it has to be unique.
Python reads from the le and keeps the last wri en value for that key. 
73. What data types can act as keys in a dic onary? Keys can be Strings, Integers, floats, Booleans, and tuples. 
74. Can lists, dic onaries, or sets be keys? No, they cannot be keys as they are mutable. 
75. How do you update or add values to a dic onary? Using the .update() method. 
76. How do you fetch all keys, values, or items from a dic onary? Using dict.keys(), dict.values(), and dict.items(). 
77. What does dict.items() return? It returns a sequence where each item is a tuple. 
78. What is the difference between a shallow copy and a deep copy? A shallow copy just copies the top level ("upar-upar se copy karta hain"),
while a deep copy creates an en rely new, independent copy ("andar tak poori tarah se ek nayi, independent copy banata hai").
79. What is the syntax for condi onal blocks in Python? It uses if, elif, and else statements. 
80. What is a nested if statement? An if statement inside another if statement.
81. What is a for loop used for? It is an itera on-based loop which steps through the items of a collec on (list, tuple, set, dict, string). 
82. What does the range() func on do? It is used to generate a sequence of integer numbers. 
83. What does break do in a loop? It is used to sa sfy a stop condi on; it breaks out of the loop. 
84. What does con nue do in a loop? It skips the itera on if sa sfied, and moves to the next one. 
85. How does a while loop func on? It keeps doing a task while a condi on is true, and stops when the condi on becomes False. 
86. What is an infinite loop (∞ loop)? A loop that never ends; it only stops when we use break. 
87. What is a nested loop? A loop inside a loop (e.g., the outer loop defines rows, the inner loop defines columns). 
88. What are the types of func ons? Built-in func ons, user-defined func ons, and third-party func ons. 
89. What does the return statement do? It gives the result back so you can use it later. 
90. What happens if a func on returns mul ple values? Python automa cally makes it a tuple. 
91. What is a posi onal argument? Passing arguments in order of their posi on. 
92. What is a keyword argument? Passing arguments by explicitly naming the parameters (e.g., a=10, b=5). 
93. What is a variable-length argument *args? It accepts mul ple posi onal arguments and returns them as a tuple. 
94. What is **kwargs? It accepts mul ple keyword arguments and stores them as a dic onary. 
95. What is a doc-string? It is used to explain the code. 
96. What is recursion? A process in which a func on calls itself un l a certain condi on is not met. 
97. What are the two parts of a recursion func on? The Base/terminal condi on (stopping condi on) and the Recursive condi on. 
98. What is the difference between a local and global variable? A local variable is defined inside a func on, while a global 
variable is defined outside any func on in the main body. 
99. What is a Lambda func on? It is an anonymous func on. Think of it as a "disposable func on" you use once and then discard. 
100. Can lambda func ons have mul ple expressions? No, they automa cally return and contain only one expression. 
101. What is map() used for? It is used when you have to perform an opera on on every element of a list and create a new list.
102. What is filter() used for? It is used when you want to select only specific elements from a list that sa sfy a condi on. 
103. What is a module? It is just a file that contains Python code (func ons, variables, classes) which you can reuse in other programs. 
104. What does alias mean in impor ng? It means giving something a shorter, cleaner name, mostly used with import (e.g., import random as rd). 
105. What is the __name__ special variable used for? It helps you determine whether a script is 
being run directly or being imported as a module into another script. 
106. If you run a file directly, what does Python set __name__ to? Python sets __name__ to "__main__". 
107. What are the two types of files discussed in Python? Binary files (audio, pictures, video files) and Text files. 
108. What does r mode do in file handling? It opens a file to read. 
109. What does w mode do? It opens a file to write or overwrite content. 
110. What does a mode do? It opens a file to append content at the end. 
111. What happens if you open a file in w mode that already contains data? It is replaced by newly put content, so you must be very careful when using w mode. 
112. Why should you close a file using .close()? A er closing a file, you cannot perform read or write opera ons on it. 
113.What does the read() func on do? It reads the content of the file as a string. 
114. What does readline() do? It reads a single line at a me. 
115. What does readlines() do? It reads mul ple lines and stores them in a list. 
116. What is the advantage of using the with statement for file handling? The with statement terminates/closes
the file before it terminates, making sure the file closes properly. 
117. How can you check if a file exists? You can use os.path.exists() or pathlib's Path().exists(). 
118. What are compile-me errors? Errors like Syntax errors or Indenta on errors. 
119. What is an Excep on? An error that occurs during execu on. 
120. What error occurs when you divide a number by zero? A ZeroDivisionError occurs. 
121. How do you handle an excep on? Using a try block to test code and an except block to catch the error. 
122. What does the else block do in excep on handling? It runs if no error happens in the try block. 
123. What does the finally block do? It runs no ma er what, usually placed a er the else 
block, ensuring resources like files are always safely closed. 
124. How can you manually trigger an excep on? By using the raise keyword, for example, raise ValueError. 
 125. What does JSON stand for? JavaScript Object Nota on, and it is a data interchange format
126. What is Serializa on? When we want to store data types in memory or files, they need to be converted into a sequence of bytes the computer can understand. 
127. What is Deserializa on? When you want to access stored structures, the sequences of bytes must be converted back into the original data type. 
128. What module is used to work with binary serializa on in Python? The pickle module. 
129. What file modes are used with pickle? wb (write binary) and rb (read binary). 
130. What func on is used to serialize data in json and pickle? The dump() func on. 
131. What func on is used to deserialize data? The load() func on.
132. What are Regular Expressions (RegEx) used for? They are used for pa ern matching, and they are used only on Strings. 
133. What module do you import to use regex? The re module. 
134. What does re.search() do? It searches for a given pa ern in a string. 
135. What does a dot . match in RegEx? It matches anything but not a new line (any single character except a newline character or backslash n). 
136. What does \d match? It matches 1 digit character, similar to ``. 
137. What does \s match? It matches any whitespace character. 
138. What does \S (capital S) match? It matches any character except space, \n, \t. 
139. What does \w match? It matches [a-z], [A-Z], (alphanumeric characters). 
140. What does \W (capital W) match? It matches everything except [a-z][A-Z]. 
141. What are quan fiers in RegEx? They specify repe ons. For example, {2,5} matches between 2 and 5 characters.
142. What does the + quantifier do? It matches 1 or more repe ons of the previous pattern.  
143. What does the ? quantifier do? It represents 0 or 1 match. 
144. What does the * quantifier do? It means 0 or more matches. 
145. What does the caret symbol ^ mean? It specifies the Start of the string. 
146. What does the $ symbol mean? It specifies the end of the string. 
147. Why do we use \b? To prevent par al matching inside a bigger number or word. 
148. What does re.findall() do? It finds all occurrences of the pa ern and returns a list. 
148. What does re.finditer() do? It gives a fully informed result returning a callable iterator object
149. What does re.sub() do? It is a substiute function; it replaces the matched pattern with a given string. 
150. How do you ignore case sensi vity in RegEx? By using the flags=re.IGNORECASE argument. 
151. What does re.compile() do? It is used to compile a regular expression pa ern into a 
pa ern object, which can be used for matching.















































9. Is Python case sensi ve? Yes, Python is case sensi ve (e.g., 'python' == 'Python' is False). 
10. What is a variable? A variable represents a reserved memory loca on.
